AI in fiction (art)
---------------------

Thought-capable artificial beings appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity, and have
 been a persistent theme in science fiction. 

A common trope in these works began with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, where a human creation 
becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as Arthur C. Clarke's and Stanley 
Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (both 1968), with HAL 9000, the murderous computer in 
charge of the Discovery One spaceship, as well as The Terminator (1984) and The Matrix (1999). 
In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) and Bishop 
from Aliens (1986) are less prominent in popular culture.

Isaac Asimov introduced the Three Laws of Robotics in many books and stories, most notably 
the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws 
are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics; while almost all artificial
intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally
consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity.

Transhumanism (the merging of humans and machines) is explored in the manga Ghost in the Shell 
and the science-fiction series Dune. In the 1980s, artist Hajime Sorayama's Sexy Robots series 
were painted and published in Japan depicting the actual organic human form with lifelike 
muscular metallic skins and later "the Gynoids" book followed that was used by or influenced 
movie makers including George Lucas and other creatives. Sorayama never considered these 
organic robots to be real part of nature but always unnatural product of the human mind, 
a fantasy existing in the mind even when realized in actual form. 

Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, 
showing us artificial beings that have the ability to feel, and thus to suffer. This appears 
in Karel Čapek's R.U.R., the films A.I. Artificial Intelligence and Ex Machina, as well as
 the novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, by Philip K. Dick. Dick considers the idea 
that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial
 intelligence.
